8162
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Modeling and Application of Magnetic Shaking
for Improving Permeability and Performance
of Magnetic Shields
Jianzhi Yang
, Xu Zhang
, Minxia Shi
, Shuai Yuan
, Ling Wang
,
and Bangcheng Han
, Member, IEEE
Abstract—Biomagnetic ﬁeld measurements necessitate
magnetic shields of high performance, particularly for
quasi-static and low-frequency ﬁelds. These largely rely on
the magnetic properties of the shielding material. Magnetic
shaking can enhance the material’s permeability by reduc-
ing hysteresis loss, though this method introduces ﬁeld in-
terference into the shielding device, complicating the mag-
netic environment. In this study, an attenuation coefﬁcient
is introduced into the Jiles–Atherton model to quantify
the suppression effect of magnetic shaking on hysteresis
loss, based on measurements of magnetic properties un-
der the shaking ﬁelds. To improve shielding performance
while minimizing additional interference, the frequency of
magnetic shaking is increased and applied only to the out-
ermost layer of the shielding device. Through testing and
ﬁtting results, the impact of various magnetic shaking con-
ditions on a cubic magnetic shielding device is examined.
By applying a shaking ﬁeld of 200 Hz solely to the out-
ermost layer, the shielding factor (@0.01 Hz) of a three-
layer device increases by 77.4% without additional mag-
netic noise. This method is also applied to a magnetically
shielded room, enhancing its shielding factors by more
than two times.
Index
Terms—Anhysteretic
magnetization,
Jiles–
Atherton
model,
magnetic
shaking,
magnetic
shield,
shielding factor.
Manuscript received 2 November 2022; revised 21 June 2023 and
27 July 2023; accepted 7 September 2023. Date of publication 19
September 2023; date of current version 29 February 2024. This work
was supported in part by National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant 51925501, in part by Beijing Natural Science Foundation
under Grant 4191002, in part by National Natural Science Foundation of
China under Grant 52205246, and in part by National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 62203029. (Corresponding authors:
Xu Zhang; Minxia Shi.)
The authors are with the Institute of Large-scale Scientiﬁc Facility
and Centre for Zero Magnetic Field Science, Beihang University, Bei-
jing 100191, China, and with the National Institute of Extremely-Weak
Magnetic Field Infrastructure, Hangzhou 310051, China, and also with
the Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Ultra-Weak Magnetic-Field
Space and Applied Technology, Hangzhou Innovation Institute, Beihang
University, Hangzhou 310051, China (e-mail: yangjianzhi@buaa.edu.cn;
zhang_xu@buaa.edu.cn;
shiminxia@buaa.edu.cn;
ys@buaa.edu.cn;
zy2017548@buaa.edu.cn; hanbangcheng@buaa.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more ﬁgures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2023.3314921.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TIE.2023.3314921
I. INTRODUCTION
I
N RECENT decades, the development of increasingly sen-
sitive magnetometers [1], [2] has contributed signiﬁcantly
to numerous studies and applications of extremely weak mag-
netic ﬁeld measurements, including fundamental physics [3],
biomedical science [4], and industrial applications [5]. For ex-
ample, in research on magnetocardiograms [6], [7] and mag-
netoencephalograms (MEG) [8], [9], it is important to directly
measure the magnetic ﬁelds generated by the action potential
in the heart and neural currents in the brain. A nearly zero-ﬁeld
environment is necessary for the above studies, which is always
achieved using magnetic shielding devices such as magnet-
ically shielded rooms (MSR) [10] and cylindrical shielding
devices [11]. Magnetic shielding devices are usually composed
of high-conductivity materials, such as aluminum alloys, and
high-permeability materials, such as permalloys, to realize the
shielding of high frequency and low frequency ﬁelds based on
the eddying and ﬂux shunt effects, respectively [12].
The signals of biomagnetic ﬁelds are mainly concentrated in
the low-frequency band, requiring high shielding performance
for quasi-state and low-frequency ﬁelds [4], [13], which is difﬁ-
cult to improve for shielding devices. A common solution to this
problem is to increase the number of shielding layers composed
of high-permeability materials. The Physikalisch Technische
Bundesanstalt (PTB) constructed an 8-layer MSR, known as
BMSR-2, to achieve high shielding performance. The shielding
factor (SF) at 0.01 Hz of this room is 75 000, achieved at the
expense of using 24.3 t of MUMETALL, a high-permeability
material [14]. In a separate study, Altarev et al. combined two
three-layer devices to obtain optimal performance, resulting in
a residual ﬁeld below 1 nT and an SF exceeding 106 [15].
However, these shielding devices exhibit extremely complex
structures and are expensive to fabricate. Sun et al. calculated
and realized the shielding performance limit of the residual
ﬁeld via the demagnetization of the MSR, and indicated that
the quasi-static SF is determined by the initial magnetization
curve of the shielding material [16]. Another method uses coils
to actively compensate for the residual ﬁeld in shielding de-
vices [17]. Holmes et al. [18], [19] designed a series of biplanar
coils to null the background ﬁeld inside an MSR. Pan et al.
[20] optimized the structure of a Merritt coil by considering the
coupling effect of the MSR, which has the potential to further
0278-0046 © 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: MODELING AND APPLICATION OF MAGNETIC SHAKING FOR IMPROVING PERMEABILITY
8163
improve the uniformity of the compensation ﬁeld in MSRs. The
method of active magnetic compensation using coils continues
to struggle with real-time compensation for ﬂuctuations in the
environmental ﬁeld.
Magnetic shaking is a method to improve the shielding
performance, in which the initial permeability of the material
is increased by applying an ac shaking ﬁeld. Originally, this
method was utilized for magnetic recordings to overcome the
nonlinearity of the recording medium caused by hysteresis [21].
It was ﬁrst utilized in magnetic shielding in the 1980s by
Kelha et al. [22], [23], who observed a signiﬁcant improvement
in SF when magnetic shaking was applied to a quadrangular
device. This phenomenon is attributed to the continuous motion
of the domains caused by magnetic shaking, which prevents
the domain walls from freezing on a lattice defect. Sasada et
al. applied magnetic shaking to a cylindrical device made of
Metglas 2705 M amorphous ribbon, a soft magnetic material
with a highly rectangular B-H loop [24]. The SF improved from
3.5 to 150 under the shaking ﬁeld. Subsequently, they analyzed
and tested the noise characteristics of a Co-based amorphous
material under magnetic shaking [25]. Based on these studies,
Tashiro et al. [26] investigated the effects of magnetic shaking
on the incremental permeability of silicon steel. Nevertheless,
the effect of magnetic shaking lacks numerical calculations and
theoretical characterization. Additionally, this method is not
practical for magnetic shields because of the additional ﬁeld
interference inside the shielding device due to the shaking ﬁeld.
In this study, an attenuation coefﬁcient was introduced into
the Jiles–Atherton model to describe the suppression effect of
magnetic shaking on the hysteresis loss, and an exciting mode
of applying magnetic shaking only to the outermost shielding
layer of multilayer shielding devices was proposed to reduce
the interference caused by the shaking ﬁeld. First, the magnetic
properties of the shielding material were tested including the an-
hysteretic magnetization curve and magnetization curves under
different shaking ﬁelds. The parameters of the Jiles–Atherton
model and the attenuation coefﬁcient were identiﬁed based
on these results. Subsequently, the shielding performance of
a detachable cubic device, comprising three permalloy layers,
was tested and simulated under magnetic shaking with different
frequencies, amplitudes, and biases. Finally, magnetic shaking
at 200 Hz was applied to the outermost shielding layer of an
MSR, which effectively improved shielding performance.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section II
focuses on the principles and theories underlying magnetic
shaking. Section III introduces the measurement of the magnetic
properties under magnetic shaking. In Section IV, a cubic shield-
ing device is utilized to test the SF and magnetic noise under
magnetic shaking with different parameters. Magnetic shaking
is also applied to the MSR to improve its shielding performance
in practice. Section V concludes the study.
II. PRINCIPLE OF MAGNETIC SHAKING
Permeability represents the response of a magnetic material
to an applied magnetic ﬁeld and is also used to microscopically
evaluate the deﬂection ability of magnetic moments in magnetic
domains under a magnetic ﬁeld, which is a key parameter
affecting the shielding performance of magnetic shielding de-
vices against magnetostatic and low-frequency ﬁelds. Generally,
owing to the limitations of the pinning points of the magnetic
domain, it is difﬁcult to further improve the permeability of
magnetic shielding materials. If the obstruction caused by the
pinning points is overcome, the shielding material can reach
the anhysteretic state with a higher permeability. Based on the
Langevin function-based model [27], the anhysteretic magneti-
zation Man can be described as follows:
Man = MsL
μ0mHe
kBT

(1)
where Ms denotes the saturation magnetization, μ0 denotes the
permeability of vacuum, m denotes the moment per unit volume,
He denotes an effective ﬁeld, kB is Boltzmann constant, T
denotes the temperature in Kelvin, and L(x) = coth(x) −1/x
is the Langevin function. During the magnetization process,
various losses make it impossible to maintain the anhysteretic
state. According to the magnetic domain theory [28], the mag-
netization M is divided into reversible component Mrev caused
by bending, translation, and rotation of domain walls and irre-
versible component Mirr caused by pinning sites. The relation-
ship between the anhysteretic magnetization Man and the above
parameters is expressed as
M = Mrev + Mirr
(2)
Mrev = c (Man −Mirr)
(3)
where c denotes the domain ﬂexion constant. At low frequencies,
the main losses in the magnetization process are the hysteresis
loss of the pinning effect and the eddy current loss. The pinning
energy per unit volume can be expressed as
Epin = μ0n ⟨επ⟩
2Ms
 Mirr
0
dMirr = μ0k
 Mirr
0
dMirr
(4)
where Epin denotes the pinning energy per unit volume, n
denotes the average density of pinning sites, and ⟨επ⟩denotes
the average pinning energy of pinning sites for 180◦wall. The
energy-balance equation of magnetization can be written as
μ0

MdHe = μ0

MandHe −(1 −c) μ0kδ
 dMirr
dHe
dHe
−
 μ2
0d2
2ρβ
dM
dt
2
dt
(5)
where δ denotes the direction parameter used to ensure that
the pinning opposes changes in magnetization, k denotes the
pinning parameter which can be deduced from (4), ρ denotes
the resistivity in Ω · m, d denotes the cross-sectional dimension
in meters, and β denotes a geometrical factor. The second and
third terms on the right side of (5) represent the hysteresis and
eddy current losses, respectively. Based on the Jiles–Atherton
model, the hysteresis loops at dc and 300 Hz are calculated,
as shown in Fig. 1 [29]. The areas enclosed by the hysteresis
loops are proportional to the total loss during magnetization, and
the anhysteretic magnetization can be approached by providing
sufﬁcient power for these losses.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

8164
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Fig. 1.
Hysteresis loss (blue area) and eddy current loss (red area) in
magnetization.
Fig. 2.
Schematic diagram of magnetic shaking for MSR.
In the magnetic shaking method, an alternating magnetic ﬁeld
with sufﬁcient amplitude to saturate the shielding material is
introduced into the shielding layers by the shaking coil. The
requirements of the shaking and demagnetization coils are sim-
ilar; both require the applied ﬁeld to be evenly distributed in
the shielding layers. Consequently, the demagnetization coil of
the shielding device can be directly used as the shaking coil.
Considering the magnetic shaking of an MSR as an example, a
shaking ﬁeld can be introduced into the shielding layers using
the shaking coil at the edges as shown in Fig. 2. In this manner,
sufﬁcient energy is provided to counteract part of the energy
losses, such that the shielding material is close to the anhysteretic
state [26], which can be described by introducing an attenuation
coefﬁcient into the terms of the hysteresis loss in (5). During this
process, the magnetic domain walls were repeatedly displaced
by the shaking ﬁeld, and the obstacles caused by the pinning
points were partly overcome. From a macroperspective, the
permeabilityoftheshieldingmaterialandshieldingperformance
Fig. 3.
Schematic diagram of magnetization curve measurement un-
der magnetic shaking.
were also improved, which can be characterized in detail by
measuring the magnetization curve under magnetic shaking.
III. MEASUREMENT AND CALCULATION OF MAGNETIC
PROPERTY UNDER MAGNETIC SHAKING
A. Measurement of Magnetization Curves
In this study, the magnetic properties of a ring-shaped permal-
loy sample, including the initial magnetization curve, anhys-
teretic magnetization curve, and magnetization curves under
magnetic shaking were measured. This permalloy material was
also used as the shielding material in subsequent experiments.
Four coils were wound around the sample: a dc biasing winding,
shaking winding, exciting winding, and induction winding. A
schematic of the measurement system is shown in Fig. 3. The dc
biasing winding was connected to a dc power supply (PWS4205,
Tektronix) to apply different dc biases. The shaking winding was
connected to a power ampliﬁer (7234, AE TECHRON) con-
trolled by a signal generator (33500B, KEYSIGHT) to provide
different shaking ﬁelds. The other two coils were connected to
the output and acquisition modules of a commercial hysteresis-
graph system (MATS-2010SD, LINKJOIN). The initial magne-
tization curve can be tested directly by applying an alternating
magnetic ﬁeld with a low frequency of 0.1 Hz and a maximum
amplitude of 100 A/m using the hysteresis graph system. How-
ever, because of its drift-adjusting function, the anhysteretic
magnetization of the sample under different dc biases cannot
be tested directly like the initial magnetization [30]. Using a
constant saturation ﬂux density as a benchmark, the anhysteretic
magnetization curve was obtained by subtracting the saturation
values with and without the dc bias ﬁeld. The detailed test steps
of anhysteretic magnetization curve are as follows.
Step 1: Demagnetize the sample and test its initial magne-
tization curve. The maximum magnetic ﬁeld intensity of Hm
should saturate the material, and its corresponding ﬂux density
Bm1 are recorded.
Step 2: A dc bias of Hb is applied to the sample using a dc
power supply. Meanwhile, the sample is demagnetized, and its
initial magnetization curve is tested again. The maximum test
ﬁeld intensity should be set to Hm −Hb to ensure that the test
conditions are the same as those in step 1. The maximum ﬂux
density corresponds to Bm2.
Step 3: The magnetic ﬂux density Ba corresponding to ﬁeld
intensity Hb can be calculated using Ba = Bm1 −Bm2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: MODELING AND APPLICATION OF MAGNETIC SHAKING FOR IMPROVING PERMEABILITY
8165
Fig. 4.
Measurement results of the magnetic properties under different
conditions. (a) Magnetization curves. (b) Average permeabilities.
By repeating steps 2 and 3 with different dc biases Hb, the
anhysteretic magnetization curve is ﬁnally obtained.
Magnetization curves under magnetic shaking at different
frequencies, amplitudes, and bias ﬁelds were also tested. Shak-
ing ﬁelds were introduced into the sample through the shaking
winding. A low-frequency excitation signal of 1 Hz is applied
to the exciting winding. The induced voltage was acquired by
ﬁltering the shaking ﬁeld signal using a low-pass ﬁlter. It should
be noted that a series resistor of 100 Ω should to be connected
at the excitation side to prevent crosstalk from the shaking
ﬁeld.
The magnetization curves obtained under different conditions
are illustrated in Fig. 4(a). The permeability of the anhysteretic
magnetization curve is highest at low applied ﬁelds due to
the neglect of the hysteresis loss. Compared with the initial
magnetization curve, the magnetization curves under shaking
ﬁelds were closer to the anhysteretic state, which implies that
part of the hysteresis loss was offset by the magnetic shaking and
the higher permeability was achieved. To further characterize the
magnetization of these curves, the average permeabilities are
calculated as shown in Fig. 4(b), which is the slope of the line
from the origin to a particular point on the curve. The initial
permeability of the material was improved by the magnetic
shaking, and the effect of low frequency was more evident.
TABLE I
PARAMETERS OF JILES–ATHERTON MODEL
B. Calculation of Magnetic Property Under Magnetic
Shaking
Magnetic shaking can bring the magnetization curve closer to
the anhysteretic magnetization curve with a higher initial perme-
ability by suppressing the losses in the magnetization process.
To characterize this effect, a theoretical model is proposed by
introducing the attenuation coefﬁcient Shy to the terms of the
hysteresis loss in the Jiles–Atherton model. In the magnetization
curve measurements, the frequency of the excitation current was
1Hz; therefore, theeddycurrent loss was ignored. Thehysteresis
loss term in the energy-balance (5) can be rewritten as
Ehys = Shy

(1 −c) μ0kδ
 dMirr
dHe
dHe

.
(6)
First, based on the initial and anhysteretic magnetization curves,
the ﬁve parameters of the Jiles–Atherton model are identiﬁed
using a chaotic particle swarm optimization (C-PSO) algo-
rithm [31], as listed in Table I. Substituting these parameters
into the proposed model, the attenuation coefﬁcient Shy was also
optimized by the same C-PSO algorithm. When the strength of
the excitation magnetic ﬁeld H was close to the amplitude of
the shaking ﬁeld, there was a signiﬁcant decrease in the effect of
magnetic shaking. Therefore, only the test data within H ≤0.2
A/m were adopted in the calculations.
The calculated magnetization curves under magnetic shaking
at different frequencies and amplitudes are shown in Fig. 5(a).
All the magnetization curves under magnetic shaking were
located between the initial magnetization curve and the an-
hysteretic magnetization curve. A shaking ﬁeld with a larger
amplitude and lower frequency makes the magnetization curve
closer to the anhysteretic curve. The relative permeabilities were
obtained by taking the derivatives of the magnetization curves,
as shown in Fig. 5(b). Considering a shaking ﬁeld of 10 Hz and
1 A/m as an example, the relative permeability at H = 0.01 A/m
reaches 1.02×105, which is approximately 1.3 times that of the
initial magnetization curve. This also indicates that the mag-
netic shielding device has better shielding performance under
magnetic shaking. The corresponding relationships between the
different shaking conditions and the attenuation coefﬁcient Shy
are listed in Table II. A smaller attenuation coefﬁcient Shy leads
to a more pronounced suppression effect of magnetic shaking on
the hysteresis loss. As the amplitude of shaking ﬁeld increases,
the attenuation coefﬁcient gradually decreases and becomes
stable.
Permeabilities of the sample at H = 0.05 A/m are also tested
under shaking ﬁeld with different conditions of frequency and
amplitude. The corresponding attenuation coefﬁcients are intro-
ducedintotheproposedmodelforcalculation,andthecalculated
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

8166
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Fig. 5.
Magnetic properties under magnetic shaking with different fre-
quencies and amplitudes. (a) Magnetization curves. (b) Relative perme-
abilities.
TABLE II
CORRESPONDING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN AMPLITUDE OF SHAKING AND
ATTENUATION COEFFICIENT Shy
results are consistent with the measured values as shown in
Fig. 6(a). As the amplitude of the shaking ﬁeld increases, the
permeability increases rapidly and then stabilizes. The improve-
ment in permeability caused by low-frequency shaking ﬁeld is
generally greater than that caused by high-frequency shaking.
The effect of the magnetic shaking bias ﬁeld on permeability
was also tested and calculated. The amplitude of shaking ﬁeld
was set at 5 A/m. The bias ﬁeld changes the starting point of
the magnetization curve and leads to a reduction in the initial
Fig. 6.
Test and calculation results of permeabilities (H = 0.05 A/m)
under magnetic shaking with (a) different frequencies and amplitudes;
(b) different frequencies and bias ﬁelds.
TABLE III
CORRESPONDING RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN BIAS FIELD OF SHAKING AND
ATTENUATION COEFFICIENT Shy
permeability, which can be calculated by substituting the bias
ﬁeld in the anhysteretic magnetization curve. The measurements
revealed that the effect of magnetic shaking is also affected by
the bias ﬁeld. The attenuation coefﬁcients Shy are reoptimized
according to the measured permeabilities, which are listed in
Table III. By substituting these coefﬁcients into the model, the
calculated and measured values were obtained, as shown in
Fig. 6(b). As the bias ﬁeld increases, the attenuation coefﬁcient
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: MODELING AND APPLICATION OF MAGNETIC SHAKING FOR IMPROVING PERMEABILITY
8167
Fig. 7.
Testing system of SF and magnetic shaking. (a) Experimental
setup. (b) Test ﬂowchart.
decreases further, which slows down the reduction in perme-
ability. Considering the shaking ﬁeld of 10 Hz and 5 A/m as an
example, if the coefﬁcient Shy = 0.0936 remains unchanged,
the calculated permeability decreases more rapidly as the bias
ﬁeld increases when compared with the measured values, which
are marked by the red dotted line in Fig. 6(b).
IV. EXPERIMENTAL IMPROVEMENT OF MAGNETIC SHAKING
A. Improvement of SF
SF, the ratio of the ﬁeld without and with shield, corre-
sponds to a critical index for evaluating the performance of
magnetic shielding device. To verify the effectiveness of mag-
netic shaking, an experimental system was established to test
the SF, including a cubic magnetic shielding device with the
shaking coil, a ﬂuxgate magnetometer (MAG-13, Bartington
Instruments), and a triaxial test coil, as shown in Fig. 7(a). The
cubic shielding device has three detachable permalloy layers.
The spacing between shielding layers was 20 mm. The shaking
coil was only wound around the edge of the outermost layer
through the central holes of the shielding device. This winding
ensured that the applied shaking ﬁeld is evenly distributed in the
outermost layer. This shielding device was placed at the center
of the triaxial test coils, which consisted of three pairs of square
Helmholtz coils. Their side length, spacing, and coil constant
are 1340 mm, 700 mm, 69384 nT/A, respectively.
As shown in Fig. 7(b), the entire measurement process can be
divided into a magnetic shaking system and an SF testing system
according to the functions. In the magnetic shaking system, a
power ampliﬁer (7796, AE TECHRON) was controlled using a
signal generator (33500B, KEYSIGHT) to generate a sinusoidal
current to drive the shaking coil of the cubic shielding device.
The amplitude, frequency, and bias of the magnetic shaking
current were adjusted using the signal generator. In the SF
testing system, ac modulation and demodulation technologies
were utilized to measure the SF at different frequencies, avoid-
ing the inﬂuence of the ambient magnetic ﬁeld. The current
source (LDC 205 C, Thorlabs) was controlled using a locking-in
ampliﬁer (HFLI, Zurich Instruments) to provide an ac current
with the test frequency for the Helmholtz coils. The ﬂuxgate
magnetometer was ﬁxed at the center of the shielding device for
the signal acquisition of the magnetic ﬁeld. This signal was then
demodulated at the test frequency using the locking-in ampliﬁer
to extract the ﬁeld produced only by the coils. Finally, the SF
at this frequency was calculated using the ratio of the ﬁelds
without and with shield. For the extremely low frequencies,
such as 0.01 and 0.1 Hz, there is usually considerable instru-
ment noise, resulting in an inability to obtain the demodulated
signal accurately. Therefore, the root mean square (RMS) values
of these measurement signals with extremely low frequencies
were extracted directly by the time-domain analysis for the SF
calculation.
The databases of the attenuation coefﬁcient Shy were built
to describe the magnetic properties under different shaking
conditions based on the tested and ﬁtted magnetization curves
under different shaking ﬁelds. By this method, the time-varying
problem of magnetic shaking can be transformed into a steady-
state problem, and the ﬁnite element simulation model was
established by the software of COMSOL to calculate the SFs
(@0.01 Hz) of the one-layer shielding device. The outermost
surface was set by default to the boundary condition of the
magnetic insulation expressed as −→
n × −→
A = 0. To reduce the
effect of the magnetic insulation condition on the calculation
results, an inﬁnite element domain was added to the outside
of this model. The magnetic shielding layer was replaced by
the boundary condition of the magnetic shield, which describes
a thin layer of a highly permeable medium that shields the
magnetic ﬁeld. The discontinuities of the tangential magnetic
ﬁeld and vector potential caused by this boundary condition can
be expressed as
−→
n × (−→
H1 −−→
H2) = −→
n × −→
Ht
(7)
−→
Ht =
−→
Bt
μ0μr
(8)
−→
Bt = −→
n ×
−→
A1 −−→
A2
ds

(9)
where −→
n denotes the unit normal vector of the surface layer, −→
H1,
−→
H2, and −→
A1, −→
A2 denote the magnetic ﬁeld and vector potential
on both sides of the boundary, respectively; and ds = 2 mm
is the layer thickness. The relationship between the tangential
magnetic ﬁeld −→
Ht and magnetic ﬂux density −→
Bt inside the
layer can be characterized by a ﬁxed permeability, expressed
as (8), or a B-H curve [32]. In this study, the tested and ﬁtted
magnetization curves under the magnetic shaking are selected
as the B-H curve to characterize this relationship.
Due to the nonlinear magnetization curve of magnetic prop-
erty, the automatic Newton method is employed for solution with
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

8168
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Fig. 8.
Test and simulation results of SF (@0.01 Hz) of one-layer
device under magnetic shaking with different parameters. (a) Shaking
amplitude. (b) Bias ﬁeld.
the initial and minimum damping factors of 1 and 10−4, which
can be adjusted automatically according to convergence. The
tolerance was set to 0.001 to terminate the Newton iterations,
and the maximum number of iterations is set to 25 to limit the
number of Newton iterations. The gap between the device and
cover, which was set to 5 mm in simulation, had a signiﬁcant
inﬂuence on the shielding performance. The inﬁnite element
domain was divided by sweeping. The regions on both sides
of the magnetic shield boundary condition were subdivided into
free tetrahedral meshes with a minimum element size of 1.8 mm,
and the elements in these two regions remained continuous.
On the magnetic shield surface, the nodes must be calculated
considering the contribution of the boundary conditions.
The SF of the single-layer cubic shielding device was tested
and simulated under different parameters, including frequency,
amplitude, and bias ﬁeld. The shaking current of 10 Ap−p
corresponds to a 6.4 A/m shaking ﬁeld. Fig. 8(a) illustrates that
when compared with the no-shaking condition, the X-direction
SF at 0.01 Hz is signiﬁcantly improved from 52.8 to 80.6 under
the condition of the 10 Hz shaking without bias ﬁeld. The SF
(@0.01 Hz) tends to increase with the amplitude of magnetic
shaking and gradually approaches a steady value, indicating
that the material tends to the saturated magnetization. The
SF (@0.01 Hz) decreases with increasing shaking frequency.
As shown in Fig. 8(b), the bias ﬁeld leads to a reduction in
Fig. 9.
SF measurement from 0.01 to 100 Hz under magnetic shaking.
the SF (@0.01 Hz) under the magnetic shaking of 10 Ap−p.
The variation trend of SF (@0.01 Hz) with the amplitude and
bias ﬁeld of shaking is consistent with the permeability of the
shielding material in Section III. Increasing the amplitude of the
shaking ﬁeld can bring the shielding material closer to the an-
hysteretic magnetization curve and obtain higher permeability,
thus improving the shielding performance. Conversely, the bias
ﬁeld causes a decrease in the permeability, which reduces the
shieldingperformance. TheSFs (@0.01Hz) of thetwo-layer and
three-layer devices were also tested, as listed in Table IV. Owing
to the holes on the layers, the SF (@0.01 Hz) in the X-direction
is smaller than the other directions. For the three-layer device,
the SFs (@0.01 Hz) in the Z-direction are improved by 86.7%,
77.4%, and 71.1% under 10, 200, and 300 Hz shaking ﬁelds,
respectively.
Under the magnetic shaking of 10 Ap−p and no bias ﬁeld, the
X-direction SFs from 0.01 to 100 Hz were measured as shown in
Fig. 9. The SFs at low frequency, such as 0.01 and 0.1 Hz, can be
effectively improved by magnetic shaking. As the test frequency
of the SF increased, the enhancements are gradually weakened,
and the SFs tend to be the same, which indicates that the effect
of magnetic shaking on eddy current loss is not obvious.
B. Interference of Shaking Field on Magnetic Environ-
ment Inside Shielding Device
The SF of the shielding device is signiﬁcantly improved by
magnetic shaking; however, the shaking ﬁeld can be introduced
into the device, complicating the magnetic environment, and
affecting the measurement of brain magnetic signals. The oper-
ation of the spin exchange relaxation free (SERF) atomic mag-
netometer (QuSpin Inc. CO, USA) used in MEG also requires
a nearly zero-ﬁeld environment, which can be inﬂuenced by the
ﬁeld interference. Therefore, the magnetic shaking is applied
only to the outermost shielding layer, and most of the interfer-
ence caused by it could be shielded by the other layers to ensure
the operation of the magnetometer. Additionally, its frequency
should be raised to a suitable value to avoid overlapping with
the frequency ranges of the MEG experiment, such as δ range
(0.5–4 Hz), θ range (4–7 Hz), α range (8–12 Hz), β range
(15–19 Hz) and γ range (30–59 Hz) [4].
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: MODELING AND APPLICATION OF MAGNETIC SHAKING FOR IMPROVING PERMEABILITY
8169
TABLE IV
SFS OF MULTILAYER DEVICE IN DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS UNDER MAGNETIC SHAKING
Fig. 10.
Distributions of magnetic ﬂux density norm caused by the
shaking ﬁelds inside three-layer device. (a) 10 Hz shaking ﬁeld.
(b) 200 Hz shaking ﬁeld.
By applying the shaking ﬁelds of 10 and 200 Hz to the outer-
most layer of the three-layer device, the introduced ﬁelds were
tested using the ﬂuxgate magnetometer, and the RMS values of
the magnetic ﬂux density at the corresponding frequencies were
obtained via demodulation, as shown in Fig. 10. Because of the
magnetic ﬂux leakage caused by the gaps between the covers
and layers of the device, the ﬁeld introduced near the end cover
was larger. When the frequency and amplitude of the magnetic
shaking were set to 10 Hz and 10 A, the magnetic ﬂux density
norm caused by the shaking ﬁeld was 0.9 nT at the center of
the shielding device. By adjusting the shaking ﬁeld frequency
to 200 Hz, this value was reduced to 0.6 nT. The magnetic ﬁeld
ﬂuctuations caused by the shaking ﬁeld can be further reduced
if the gap is reduced and a layer of electromagnetic shielding is
added.
Based on the SERF atomic magnetometer, one of the main-
stream sensors used in MEG experiments, the power spectral
density (PSD) of the magnetic ﬁeld inside the three-layer shield-
ing device is tested under magnetic shaking to characterize the
magnetic noise as shown in Fig. 11. Without the shaking ﬁeld
applied to the device, the PSD test result is essentially equivalent
to the noise ﬂoor of the sensor, which was approximately 15
fT/Hz1/2.Undermagneticshakingat10Hzand10Ap−p,signiﬁ-
cant peaks were observed at 10 Hz and frequency multiplication.
Fig. 11.
PSD of magnetic ﬁeld inside the three-layer device under
nonshaking, 10 Hz shaking and 200 Hz shaking.
Whenthefrequencyof theshakingﬁeldwas increasedto200Hz,
no evident peak was observed in the common frequency ranges
of the MEG experiment.
C. Practical Application on MSR
Magnetic shaking was applied to the MSR that was used
for the MEG experiments. The MSR was composed of three
layers of permalloy and one layer of aluminum alloy. The
overall dimensions were 4500 mm×3500 mm×3000 mm. The
demagnetization I-coils [16] of this MSR were selected as the
shaking coils, which are wound around the 12 edges of each
layer to generate the shaking ﬁeld in the permalloy layers of the
MSR as illustrated in Fig. 12(a). Only the outermost coil was
used for magnetic shaking during measurement. Three pairs of
rectangular coils were ﬁxed outside the MSR to generate the test
ﬁeld. The ﬂuxgate magnetometer was ﬁxed on a nonmagnetic
test platform to measure the residual ﬁelds and SFs in the MSR
as shown in Fig. 12(b). A test plane with size of 1m2 was
evenly divided into 6×6 grids to characterize the distribution
of the residual ﬁeld. The frequency of magnetic shaking was
set to 200 Hz to avoid the interference caused by the shaking
ﬁeld, and the amplitude was 20 Ap−p to satisfy the saturation
magnetization of the MSR.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

8170
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Fig. 12.
Measurement of residual ﬁeld and SF inside MSR. (a) 3-D
model of the MSR with shaking coils and test coils. (b) Photo of the
three-layer MSR setup.
As shown in Fig. 13(a), owing to the magnetic leakage in
the gaps of the shielding door, there are large ﬁeld gradients of
2.9 nT/m in X-direction and 3.9 nT/m in Y-direction inside the
MSR. After applying the magnetic shaking, the average residual
ﬁeld is reduced from 4.9 to 3.8 nT as shown in Fig. 13(b). Due
to the gaps between the shielding door and layers, the shaking
ﬁeld cannot be applied evenly to the door. Consequently, the
ﬁeld gradients in the X- and Y-directions remain at 2.6 and 3.7
nT/m with only a slight decrease. The SFs in three directions
are also tested as shown in Fig. 14. The SFs at 0.01 Hz in the
longitudinal, transverse, and height directions improved from
210.5, 175.9, and 126.6 to 489.1, 369.2, and 266.5, respectively,
corresponding to increases of 132.4%, 109.9%, and 110.5%. The
SFs increased exponentially with the test frequency owing to the
high conductivity and enclosed construction of the aluminum
layer. The SFs within 10 Hz increased by more than two times
under the 200 Hz shaking ﬁeld.
Fig. 13.
Distributions of residual ﬁeld inside MSR. (a) Before magnetic
shaking. (b) During magnetic shaking.
Fig. 14.
SFs of the MSR from 0.01 to 10 Hz in (a) longitudinal,
(b) transverse, (c) height directions.
V. CONCLUSION
In this study, a model was established by introducing an
attenuation coefﬁcient into the Jiles–Atherton model to describe
the suppression effect of magnetic shaking on the hysteresis
loss. An exciting mode of applying magnetic shaking only to
the outermost layer was proposed to avoid interference of the
introduced ﬁeld. Thus, the SF (@0.01 Hz) of the three-layer
device was signiﬁcantly improved by 86.7% and 77.4% under
magnetic shaking at 10 and 200 Hz, respectively. The PSD
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

YANG et al.: MODELING AND APPLICATION OF MAGNETIC SHAKING FOR IMPROVING PERMEABILITY
8171
inside the device was also measured under magnetic shaking
with different parameters using an atomic magnetometer, which
demonstrated that the magnetic noise was barely affected under
the shaking ﬁeld of 200 Hz. The shielding performance of the
MSR, including the residual ﬁelds and SFs, was measured under
magnetic shaking at 200 Hz. The average residual ﬁeld was
decreased from 4.9 to 3.8 nT, and the SFs improved by a factor
of two.
REFERENCES
[1] I. K. Kominis, T. W. Kornack, J. C. Allred, and M. V. Romalis, “A subfem-
totesla multichannel atomic magnetometer,” Nature, vol. 422, no. 6932,
pp. 596–599, 2003.
[2] R. Zhang, T. Dyer, N. Brockie, R. Parsa, and R. Mhaskar, “Subpicotesla
scalar atomic magnetometer with a microfabricated cell,” J. Appl. Phys.,
vol. 126, no. 12, 2019, Art. no. 124503.
[3] F. Allmendinger et al., “New limit on Lorentz-invariance- and CPT-
violating neutron spin interactions using a free-spin-precession 3He-129Xe
comagnetometer,” Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 112, no. 11, 2014, Art. no. 110801.
[4] S. Baillet, “Magnetoencephalography for brain electrophysiology and
imaging,” Nature Neurosci., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 327–339, 2017.
[5] D. Pan, J. Li, C. Jin, T. Liu, S. Lin, and L. Li, “A new calibration method
for triaxial ﬂuxgate magnetometer based on magnetic shielding room,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 67, no. 5, pp. 4183–4192, May 2020.
[6] J. Sheng et al., “Magnetoencephalography with a CS-based high-
sensitivity compact atomic magnetometer,” Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 88,
no. 9, 2017, Art. no. 94304.
[7] Y. J. Kim, I. Savukov, and S. Newman, “Magnetocardiography with a
16-channelﬁber-coupledsingle-cellRBopticallypumpedmagnetometer,”
Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 114, no. 14, 2019, Art. no. 143702.
[8] E. Boto et al., “Moving magnetoencephalography towards real-world
applications with a wearable system,” Nature, vol. 555, no. 7698,
pp. 657–661, 2018.
[9] X. Zhang et al., “Detection and analysis of MEG signals in occipital region
with double-channel OPM sensors,” J. Neurosci. Methods, vol. 346, 2020,
Art. no. 108948.
[10] I. Altarev et al., “A magnetically shielded room with ultra low residual ﬁeld
and gradient,” Rev. Sci. Instruments, vol. 85, no. 7, 2014, Art. no. 075106.
[11] K. He et al., “A high-performance compact magnetic shield for optically
pumped magnetometer-based magnetoencephalography,” Rev. Sci. Instru-
ments, vol. 90, no. 6, 2019, Art. no. 064102.
[12] T. Rikitake, Magnetic and Electromagnetic Shielding. Tokyo, Japan: Terra
Scientiﬁc Pub. Co D. Reidel Pub. Co., 1987.
[13] A. Kandori et al., “Subtraction magnetocardiogram for detecting coronary
heart disease: Subtraction magnetocardiogram method,” Ann. Noninvasive
Electrocardiol., vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 360–368, 2010.
[14] J. Bork, H.-D. Hahlbohm, and R. Klein, “The 8-layered magnetically
shielded room of the PTB: Design and construction,” in Proc. 12th Int.
Conf. Biomagn., 2000, pp. 970–73.
[15] I. Altarev et al., “A large-scale magnetic shield with 106 damping at mHz
frequencies,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 117, no. 18, 2015, Art. no. 183903.
[16] Z. Sun et al., “Limits of low magnetic ﬁeld environments in magnetic
shields,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 5385–5395,
Jun. 2021.
[17] J. Wang, X. Song, W. Zhou, Y. Le, and X. Ning, “Hybrid optimal design of
bi-planar coils with uniform magnetic ﬁeld or ﬁeld gradient,” IEEE Trans.
Ind. Electron., vol. 68, no. 11, pp. 11544–11553, Nov. 2021.
[18] N. Holmes et al., “A bi-planar coil system for nulling background magnetic
ﬁelds in scalp mounted magnetoencephalography,” NeuroImage, vol. 181,
pp. 760–774, 2018.
[19] N. Holmes et al., “Balanced, bi-planar magnetic ﬁeld and ﬁeld
gradient
coils
for
ﬁeld
compensation
in
wearable
magnetoen-
cephalography,” Sci. Rep., vol. 9, no. 1, 2019, Art. no. 14196,
doi 10.1038/s41598-019-50697-w.
[20] D. Pan et al., “Research on the design method of uniform magnetic ﬁeld
coil based on the MSR,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 67, no. 2,
pp. 1348–1356, Feb. 2020.
[21] H. N. Bertram, Theory of Magnetic Recording. Cambridge, U.K.: Cam-
bridge Univ. Press, 1994.
[22] V. Kelha, R. Peltonen, and B. Rantala, “The effect of shaking on magnetic
shields,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 16, no. 4, pp. 575–578, Jul. 1980.
[23] V. Kelha, J. Pukki, R. Peltonen, A. Penttinen, R. Ilmoniemi, and J.
Heino, “Design, construction, and performance of a large-volume mag-
netic shield,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 260–270, Jan. 1982.
[24] I. Sasada and Y. Ohnaka, “Fundamental characteristics of a large-scale
cylindrical magnetic shield with shaking,” IEEE Transl. J. Magn. Jpn.,
vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 33–38, Nov./Dec. 1994.
[25] I. Sasada and M. Shiokawa, “Noise characteristics of Co-based amorphous
tapes to be applied as magnetic shielding shell for magnetic shaking,” IEEE
Trans. Magn., vol. 39, no. 5, pp. 3435–3437, Sep. 2003.
[26] K. Tashiro, M. Nagano, T. Kimura, and I. Sasada, “The effect of magnetic
shaking on nonoriented silicon steel rings,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 41,
no. 10, pp. 4078–4080, Oct. 2005.
[27] M. Nowicki, R. Szewczyk, and P. Nowak, “Experimental veriﬁcation of
isotropic and anisotropic anhysteretic magnetization models,” Materials,
vol. 12, no. 9, 2019, Art. no. 1549.
[28] D. C. Jiles and D. L. Atherton, “Theory of ferromagnetic hysteresis
(invited),” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 2115–2120, 1984.
[29] D. C. Jiles, “Frequency dependence of hysteresis curves in conducting
magnetic materials,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 76, no. 10, pp. 5849–5855, 1994.
[30] M. Nowicki, “Anhysteretic magnetization measurement methods for soft
magnetic materials,” Materials, vol. 11, no. 10, 2018, Art. no. 2021.
[31] B. Liu, L. Wang, Y.-H. Jin, F. Tang, and D.-X. Huang, “Improved particle
swarm optimization combined with chaos,” Chaos, Solitons Fractals,
vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 1261–1271, 2005.
[32] “AC/DC module User’s guide, chapter 5: Magnetic Field Interfaces, Mag-
netic Shielding, PP. 350. COMSOL Multiphysics⃝
R v. 6.0. COMSOL AB,”
Stockholm, Sweden, 2021.
Jianzhi Yang received the M.S. degree in
mechanical engineering from the College of
Aerospace Engineering, Nanjing University of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, Nanjing, China,
in 2019. He is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree in precision instrument and ma-
chinery with the School of Instrumentation Sci-
ence and Optoelectronics Engineering, Beihang
University, Beijing, China.
His main research interests involve mag-
netic shielding technology, atomic magnetome-
ter, and MEG research.
Xu Zhang received the Ph.D. degree for his
research on high-speed magnetic suspension
electrical machine technology from Beihang
University, Beijing, China, in 2019.
He is currently a Lecturer with the School
of Instrumentation Science and Optoelectron-
ics Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing. His
current research interests include zero magnetic
ﬁeld technology and MEG research.
Minxia Shi received the Ph.D. degree for her re-
search on electrical engineering from Xi’an Jiao-
tong University, Xi’an, China, in 2020, China.
She is currently a Postdoctoral Researcher
with the School of Instrumentation Science and
Optoelectronics Engineering, Beihang Univer-
sity, Beijing. Her current research interests in-
clude magnetic shielding and degaussing tech-
nology.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

8172
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 71, NO. 7, JULY 2024
Shuai Yuan received the B.E. degree in mea-
surement and control technology and instru-
mentation from the School of Electrical En-
gineering and Automation, Harbin Institute of
Technology, Harbin, China, in 2018. He is cur-
rently working toward the Ph.D. degree in preci-
sion instrument and machinery with the School
of Instrumentation Science and Optoelectronics
Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, China.
His main research interests involve magnetic
shielding technology and MEG research.
Ling Wang received the B.E. degree in mea-
surement and control technology and instru-
mentation from the School of Measurement and
Control Technology, Qingdao University, China,
in 2018. She is currently working toward the
M.S. degree in electronic information with the
School of Instrumentation Science and Op-
toelectronics Engineering, Beihang University,
Beijing, China.
Her main research interests involve magnetic
shielding technology and MEG research.
Bangcheng Han (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in mechanical manufacture and
automation from Changchun Institute of Optics,
Fine Mechanics and Physics, Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Changchun, China, in 2004.
In 2006, he joined Beijing University of Aero-
nautics and Astronautics. He is currently a Pro-
fessor with the School of Instrumentation Sci-
ence and Optoelectronics Engineering. His re-
search interests include mechatronics, mag-
netic suspension technology, and attitude con-
trol actuator of spacecraft.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on June 01,2026 at 08:10:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
