IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

1501810

Suppression of Magnetic Noise and Field in Cubic
Low-Noise Ferrite Magnetic Shields
Bowen Sun , Danyue Ma , Xiujie Fang , Yangzhi Xue , Jixi Lu , Member, IEEE, Hua Chen ,
Mengshi Zhang , Huanqi Wei , Bangcheng Han , Member, IEEE, and Yueyang Zhai

Abstract— Most magnetic shielding rooms (MSRs) are made
of highly permeable permalloy. The limitation of such MSR
is its intrinsic magnetic noise, which exceeds the sensitivity of
magnetic sensors, impeding the further applications of ultrasensitive magnetic sensors, such as the magnetometers operated
in the spin-exchange relaxation free (SERF) regime. In this
article, a cubic ferrite magnetic shield with a low magnetic noise
and magnetic field is proposed. The demagnetization model and
magnetic noise calculation models are given. After optimizing
several different coil structures and degaussing parameters, the
magnetic field and the magnetic noises inside the cubic ferrite
shield were measured. Within a distance of ±10 mm near the
center, the residual magnetic field is below 0.5, 1.72, and 1.57 nT
at the x-, y- and z-directions. The magnetic noise measurements
at the center of the cubic ferrite magnetic shield reveal an
averaged magnetic noise of 2.62 fT/Hz−1/2 from 20 to 100 Hz.
Compared with the noise spectrum of permalloy shield, the noise
level is reduced more than 133%. The results of this scaled-down
cubic ferrite magnetic shield can be applied in larger sized
shielding rooms. By assembling multiple ferrite panels together,
it is possible to create a larger shielding space with a low magnetic
field and low magnetic noise.
Index Terms— Demagnetization, hysteresis loss, magnetic
noise, magnetic shields, spin-exchange relaxation free (SERF)
magnetometer.

I. I NTRODUCTION

M

AGNETIC shielding rooms (MSRs) can provide a very
low magnetic field environment and have been widely

Manuscript received 19 December 2023; revised 4 March 2024;
accepted 22 March 2024. Date of publication 8 April 2024; date of current
version 24 April 2024. This work was supported in part by the Young
Scientists Fund of the National Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant 62203028, in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant 42388101, and in part by the Innovation Program for Quantum
Science and Technology under Grant 2021ZD0300501. The Associate Editor
coordinating the review process was Dr. Jagadeesh Varadarajan Kumar.
(Corresponding authors: Danyue Ma; Yueyang Zhai.)
Bowen Sun, Danyue Ma, Xiujie Fang, Yangzhi Xue, Jixi Lu, Bangcheng
Han, and Yueyang Zhai are with the Key Laboratory of Ultra-Weak
Magnetic Field Measurement Technology Ministry of Education,
School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang
University, Beijing 100191, China, also with Zhejiang Provincial
Key Laboratory of Ultra-Weak Magnetic-Field Space and Applied
Technology, Hangzhou Innovation Institute of Beihang University, Hangzhou
310000, China, and also with Hefei National Laboratory, Hefei 230088,
China (e-mail: bowensun@buaa.edu.cn; madanyue0419@buaa.edu.cn;
fangxiujie@buaa.edu.cn; xyz_BUAA@buaa.edu.cn; lujixi@buaa.edu.cn;
hanbangcheng@buaa.edu.cn; yueyangzhai@buaa.edu.cn).
Hua Chen, Mengshi Zhang, and Huanqi Wei are with the National
Institute of Extremely-Weak Magnetic Field Infrastructure, Hangzhou
310051, China (e-mail: by1717115@buaa.edu.cn; meng_zms@163.com;
hqwei7872@buaa.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIM.2024.3385809

used in the domains of electrical engineering, such as wireless
charging system [1], power transfer [2], magnetoencephalography [3], [4], fundamental physics research [5], and industrial
applications [6].
In most MSRs, the magnetic flux shunt effects of highly
permeable materials, such as permalloy and ferrites, can
reduce the external static magnetic interferences and create
a low field environment for the measuring cite [7], [8], [9].
For example, the most promising MSR made of permalloy has
achieved a magnetic field less than 0.8 nT in 1-m3 area [10],
[11], [12].
Although the external electromagnetic interferences can be
reduced by using the magnetic shield, the dissipative material
made the magnetic shield produce the hysteresis magnetic
noise and eddy current magnetic noise, which both limit
the performance of many industrial electronics, especially
of the magnetometers operated in the spin-exchange relaxation free (SERF) regime [13]. Previous studies show that
the direct magnetometers’ measurement inside the permalloy
magnetic shield reveals a sensitivity of 10 fT/Hz−1/2 , mainly
limited by the eddy current magnetic noise generated by the
permalloy [14]. To date, permalloy [15], thin aluminum/steel
sheets [16], coppers [17], and other novel metallic materials [18] are widely used to make MSRs. The drawback
of these materials is that their high electrical conductivities inevitably generate a large eddy current magnetic noise,
impeding the further applications of ultrasensitive magnetic
sensors.
As shown in Table I, the highly permeable ferrites are
promising for magnetic noise reduction due to their much
lower electrical conductivity than that of the permalloy [19].
Kornack et al. [20] derived the magnetic noise of a cylindrical
ferrite magnetic shield based on the generalized Nyquist
relation and realized a magnetic noise level of 0.75 fT/Hz−1/2 ,
a level 25 times lower than that of a permalloy magnetic shield
with a similar size. This noise level can be further reduced by
using a gradiometer arrangement inside a cylindrical ferrite
magnetic shield. Dang et al. [21] demonstrated an SERF
magnetometer with a gradient sensitivity of 0.16 fT/Hz−1/2 ,
which is the highest sensitivity in record. To further improve
the sensitivity, the magnetic noises of ferrites were investigated. Studies have correlated the magnetic noise with the
microstructures of ferrites and found that a larger grain size
is favorable for reducing the hysteresis magnetic noise [22].
Ferrite magnetic shields are effective in reducing the magnetic
noise [20], [23]. However, current processing technologies

1557-9662 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

1501810

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

In a linear response regime, δ B is independent of A and I
because the power dissipation P( f ) scales with the driving
dipole p ≡ AN I [28]. The usefulness of (4) is it can
characterize the magnetic field noise due to different sources.
For highly permeable ferrites used in this study, the primary
sources of power dissipation are eddy current power loss and
hysteresis loss, whose expressions are shown as follows:
Z
1
σ E 2d V
(5)
Peddy =
V 2

TABLE I
P ROPERTIES OF M ATERIALS E MPLOYED IN M AGNETIC S HIELDING

of ferrites cannot create the enclosure, whose geometry and
volume are equivalent to that of MSRs.
This article demonstrates a low-noise cubic ferrite magnetic
shield assembled by several Mn–Zn ferrite panels. The biggest
advantage of this geometry is that it can be employed in the
MSRs, serving as the innermost layers to reduce the large
eddy current magnetic noise generated by the permalloys.
This article is organized as follows. First, the theoretical
models of magnetic noise calculation and demagnetization are
described (Section II). Then, the magnetic field inside the
ferrite magnetic shield is simulated, and demagnetization is
optimized by considering different coil structures (Section III).
After the demagnetization, magnetic field and magnetic noises
inside the cubic ferrite shield were measured (Section IV). The
results of this scaled-down cubic ferrite magnetic shield can
be applied in the larger sized shielding rooms. By assembling
multiple ferrite panels together, it is possible to create a larger
shielding space with a low magnetic field and low magnetic
noise.
II. M ODELING AND A NALYSIS
A. Magnetic Noise of Cubic Ferrite Magnetic Shielding
The magnetic noise can be calculated from the power loss in
the source materials [28]. In the magnetic shield, the magnetic
noise at any point is due to the dissipation power of materials.
According to Faraday’s law, a pickup coil will develop a
fluctuating voltage when there was a magnetic field fluctuation
with a power spectral density S B ( f )
SV ( f ) = A 2 N 2 ω 2 S B ( f )

(1)

where A is the area of coil, N is the number of turns, and ω is
the angular frequency. Meanwhile, the fluctuation dissipation
theorem states that the fluctuating voltage of a pickup coil has
the following relation:
SV ( f ) = 4kT Reff ( f )

(2)

where T is the temperature in Kelvin, k is Boltzmann’s
constant, and Reff is the effective resistance. Considering
the time averaged power dissipation P( f ) incurred by an
oscillating current I (t) = I sin ωt
1
(3)
P( f ) = I 2 Reff ( f )
2
the magnetic field noise equation can be derived from (1)–(3)
√
√
p
4kT 2P( f )
δ B( f ) ≡ S B ( f ) =
.
(4)
AN I ω

where σ is the electrical conductivity
Z
1 ′′ 2
Physt =
ωµ H d V
2
V

(6)

where µ′′ is the imaginary part of complex permeability, σ is
the electrical conductivity, E is the electric field intensity, and
H is the magnetic field strength. According to (5), because
the electrical conductivity of ferrites is 106 times smaller than
that of permalloy [13], the magnetic noise due to eddy current
power loss can be effectively suppressed by using the ferrite
magnetic shield. Because the ferrite magnetic shield has a
complex geometry, finite element method is used to analyze
the magnetic field strength H [29]. According to previous studies, at the low frequencies (<100 Hz), the primary magnetic
noise of ferrite magnetic shield is the hysteresis loss [13].
Therefore, the magnetic noise due to the hysteresis power loss
is mainly analyzed in this article. By putting (6) into (4), the
magnetic noises can be expressed as
√
1/2
Z
2kT µ′′
H 2d V
.
(7)
δ B ≈ δ Bhyst =
√
AI π f
V
Because the cubic magnetic shield is centrally symmetric,
the longitudinal noise is equivalent to transverse ones at the
center.
Using the calculation model above, the magnetic noises
of ferrite magnetic shield were analyzed using the ANSYS
Maxwell software. In finite element analysis, the cubic ferrite
magnetic shield is placed inside six-layered permalloys. Such
magnetic shield combined the innermost ferrite and outer
permalloy has been proved to suppress the magnetic noise
to sub fT/Hz−1/2 [29], [30], [31]. To analyze the magnetic
field strength H over the volume, a toroidal coil with an
outer diameter of 5 mm and an inner diameter of 0.5 mm
is placed at the center of the cubic ferrite magnetic shield.
The coil carrying an excitation current of 1 A introduced a
power loss to the ferrites. Because the ferrite material has a
high resistivity (∼1 ·m), the eddy current effect is ignored
when the excitation current is small and the frequencies are
below 100 Hz [13]. The power loss of cubic ferrite magnetic
shield is mainly due to the magnetic hysteresis loss. The
magnetic noise can be calculated when the integral of magnetic
field strength H 2 over the volume is determined, as written
in (7).
According to (7), the magnitude of the magnetic noise
depends on the integral of magnetic field strength H 2 over
theR volume. Since the ferrite magnetic shield has holes on
it, H 2 d V needs to be analyzed using the ANSYS Maxwell
software. In this work, the maximum side length of ferrite

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

SUN et al.: SUPPRESSION OF MAGNETIC NOISE AND FIELD IN CUBIC LOW-NOISE FERRITE MAGNETIC SHIELDS

Fig. 1. Optimization of the wall thickness. (a) Simulation model. (b) Calculated magnetic noise with different wall thicknesses at 25 ◦ C. Dashed lines
represent the lowest noise level at each frequency.

shield is 240 mm, limited by the load of dry pressing in the
ferrite processing. With a max side length of 240 mm, the optimized wall
R thickness was obtained when it yields the smallest
value of H 2 d V , as shown in Fig. 1(a). The wall thickness is
dependent on the side length, and the finite element analysis
is required to obtain the best thickness to side length ratio
for different lengths. In this work, the magnetic noises of
ferrite magnetic shields with different wall thicknesses were
analyzed, as shown in Fig. 1(b). When the frequency is the
same, the magnetic noise decreases with the wall thickness and
all reaches the lowest level at 36 mm. Further increase in the
wall thickness will increase the magnetic noise. Based on this
result, when the side length of the cubic ferrite magnetic shield
is constant (240 mm), a wall thickness of 36 mm yields the
lowest noise level. Therefore, actual ferrite magnetic shield
with a wall thickness of 36 mm is fabricated, as shown in
Fig. 2(a) and (b), and its performance was further investigated
in the later experiment.
B. Demagnetization Model of High Permeability Ferrites
Due to the hysteresis characteristics of ferrite materials, the
residual magnetization presents in the magnetic shield after
demagnetization. The residual magnetization can be added to
the target signals and deteriorates magnetometers’ measuring
accuracy. Thus, a high-performance magnetic shield requires
a minimum residual magnetization. In this study, dynamic
Jiles–Atherton (JA) model is integrated with finite element
method to calculate theoretical residual magnetization in the
cubic ferrite magnetic shield [6], [31], [32]. The JA model is
expressed as follows:
−
→
−
→
−
→
∂ M irr
∂ M an
∂M
= (1 − c)
+c
(8)
∂t
∂t
∂t
−
→ −
→
−
→
He = H + α M
(9)
! −
−
→
→
| H e|
a
He
−
→
(10)
M an = Ms coth
− −
→
−
→
a
| H e| | H e|
−
→
−
→
−
→ ! −
→
∂ M irr
M rev ∂ H e M rev
=g
(11)
−
→
∂t
ck ∂t
| M rev |
−
−
→
→
−
→ 
M rev = c M an − M irr
(12)
where magnetization M contains an irreversible magnetization Mirr and a reversible magnetization Mrev , Man is the

1501810

Fig. 2. Photograph of cubic ferrite magnetic shield. (a) Dimetric view. (b) Top
view.

anhysteretic magnetization, and Ms is the saturation magnetization. α is the mean domain coupling parameter, a is the
density of domain wall, c is the reversibility for magnetization,
g is a function depends on the magnetization pathway x, g(x)
= 1 for x ≥ 0 and otherwise g(x) = −1, and k is the required
energy to break the pinning site. A promising demagnetization
requires a magnetic field H larger than the saturated magnetic
field to be applied to the cubic ferrite magnetic shield, and the
applied magnetic field is expressed as a polynomial envelope
function [10]
H (t) = Ho (1 − t/T )n sin(2π f t)

(13)

where Ho is the initial magnetic field, t is the time, T is the
duration for sine function approaching to zero (t ≤ T), and n
is the order to polynomial (n = 1 or n = 2).
JA model uses the parameters, such as Ms , α, a, c, g,
and k, to calculate the magnetic flux density at different
magnetic fields H . There are six unknown parameters in five
equations, so the analytical solutions for JA model do not
exist. MATLAB software is used to calculate the numerical
solutions of JA models. First, the initial values for Mrev and
Mirr are set to 0. For a small change in the magnetic field
dH , dMirr is determined using (11), and new irreversible
magnetization Mirr will be the sum of initial Mirr and dMirr .
By putting Mirr into (12), Mrev can be determined. Finally,
the anhysteretic magnetization Man and effective magnetic
field He can be calculated from Mirr and Mrev . To determine the initial value of Ms , the static hysteresis loop of
ferrite is measured using MATS-2010SD analyzer (Hunan
Linkjoin Technology). In Fig. 3, the result of the hysteresis
loop indicates that the saturation magnetization Ms of ferrite
materials is 2.96 × 105 A/m, which is approximately 0.37 T
according to B = µ0 (H + M), and its coercivity is 1.4 A/m.
This measured saturation magnetization is used as the initial
approximation for Ms in the JA model.
During the demagnetization, a magnetic field is applied to
the ferrite materials and the hysteresis loop B(H ) will circle
down to B = 0. The remanence at the endpoint is the residual
magnetization. Previous studies have shown that a lower residual magnetization could be obtained by applying a magnetic
field with a higher order envelope function [31]. Here, a magnetic field with a second-order envelope function is applied
to the ferromagnetic materials. The duration for the envelope
function approaching to zero is 2.1 s and the initial magnetic

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

1501810

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

Fig. 4. JA models when H0 = 30 A/m, f = 40 Hz, n = 2, and T =
2.1 s. (a) Demagnetization field with the second-order envelope function.
(b) 40 cycles of demagnetization.
TABLE III
R ESIDUAL M AGNETIZATION U NDER D IFFERENT F REQUENCIES
AND I NITIAL M AGNETIC F IELD

Fig. 3. Measured hysteresis loop of the ferrites used to make magnetic shield.
TABLE II
PARAMETERS OF JA M ODEL

field is 30 A/m, as shown in Fig. 4(a). The parameters in the
JA model are determined when first cycle of demagnetization
curve is consistent with the measured initial hysteresis loop,
as shown in Table II. By using these parameters, the residual
magnetization at the endpoint is calculated. In Fig. 4(b), the
initial magnetic field of 30 A/m yields a residual magnetization
of 4.56 nT. To analyze the effect of different f and H0 values
on the residual demagnetization, the calculations are repeated,
as listed in Table III. It is found that the residual magnetization
of endpoint increases with the initial magnetic field H0 . When
the initial magnetic field H0 is the same, increasing frequency
can reduce the residual magnetization. A theoretical magnetic
remanence of 0.15 nT is observed in the ferrite material
when f = 50 Hz and H0 = 40 A/m. These degaussing
parameters will be used in the experiments to obtain the best
demagnetization.
III. S YSTEM D ESCRIPTION AND P RELIMINARIES
A. Simulation of Magnetic Field Distribution
To analyze the shielding factor of a cubic magnetic shield,
the magnetic field distribution inside the ferrite magnetic
shield is simulated. The shielding factor S is defined as a ratio
between the external magnetic field Be and the magnetic field
of any point Bo inside the shielding region
S = Be /Bo .

(14)

In the ANSYS Maxwell software, the simulation model is
set to have the same dimension as the actual magnetic shiel
in Fig. 2(a) and (b). The relative magnetic permeability of

material used is set to 9000. The ferrite cubic magnetic shield
is placed in an 800 (X) × 800 (Y) × 800 (Z) mm vacuum.
By defining the tangential field on the vacuum surfaces,
a uniform external magnetic field is applied. Because the
cubic magnetic shield is centrally symmetric, the simulation
results are the same when the external field comes from
the x-, y-, and z-directions. In Fig. 5, an external magnetic
field of 1 µT is applied in the y-direction, and the residual
magnetic field at the center is 0.809 nT, indicating that the
ferrite cubic magnetic shield can provide a shielding factor
of 1236. In a region of 20 mm around the center, the
magnetic field gradient is 0.018 nT/mm in the x-direction,
0.035 nT/mm in the y-direction, and 0.021 nT/mm in the
z-direction. In the simulation, the magnetic field is applied
in the y-direction, and most of the magnetic flux is contained
in the XZ planes, as shown in Fig. 6. This causes the different
field distributions in Fig. 5. The results indicate that cubic
magnetic shield can provide a low field environment with a
small drift.
B. Demagnetization Coils
To realize the minimum residual magnetization in the
ferromagnetic materials, several commonly used degaussing
coils structures are analyzed using the COMSOL Multiphysics
software. A promised degaussing creates an environment with
the smallest magnetic field and gradient in the central area.
When a dc current follows through the degaussing coils,
the magnetic flux density B is introduced to the surfaces
of cubic magnetic shield. The magnitude of the magnetic
flux density B depends on the structures of degaussing coils.
To realize the best residual field, the demagnetization coils
need to enclose all edges and holes of the cubic magnetic
shield. Sun et al. [33] adopted the L-coils along the edges
to construct a magnetic shield with beveled edges and open

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

SUN et al.: SUPPRESSION OF MAGNETIC NOISE AND FIELD IN CUBIC LOW-NOISE FERRITE MAGNETIC SHIELDS

1501810

Fig. 7. Simulated magnetic flux density B. (a) L-coils. (b) Allocated L-coils.
(c) X-coils. (d) Allocated I-coils.
Fig. 5. Simulated results of magnetic field distribution in the x-, y-, and
z-directions.

Fig. 6. Magnetic field distribution inside the cubic ferrite magnetic shield.
(a) XY plane. (b) XZ plane. (c) YZ plane.

corners, which substantially improve the magnetic shielding
factor. In Fig. 7(a) and (c), the magnetic flux density B mainly
locates at the corners, where the ferromagnetic materials can
easily reach to saturation. However, the less flux density B on
the walls of the cubic ferrite magnetic shield will cause the
saturated corners come out of saturation later than elsewhere.
The insufficient demagnetization cycles on the walls of the
cubic magnetic shield can lead to an uneven distribution of
the residual magnetization on shield’s surface. To solve this
problem, more coil windings can be evenly spelled along the
walls, as shown in Fig. 7(b) and (d). Under these configurations, the flux density B is evenly distributed on the side
walls of the magnetic shield. The configuration of the allocated
I-coils yields a much more homogenous magnetic field on the
shield’s side wall under the same number of degaussing cycles.
After the magnetic flux B on the surface of the magnetic
shield is simulated, the central magnetic flux densities under
different coil winding structures are analyzed via COMSOL
Multiphysics software, as shown in Fig. 8(a)–(d). In the
analysis, the magnetomotive force, the degaussing duration
time, and the materials parameters, such as Ms , α, a, c,
g, and k, are kept the same. The simulation result shows
that the L-coils and X-coils have the obvious field gradient
in the diagonal directions, which is due to the uneven flux
density distribution on their walls and corners, as shown in
Fig. 8(a) and (c). Although the allocated L-coils can reduce the

Fig. 8. Flux density B in the central area. (a) L-coils along the edges.
(b) Allocated L-coils. (c) X-coils. (d) Allocated I-coils.

magnetic field gradient, the allocated I-coils obviously produce
a more homogenous residual magnetic field in the central area,
as shown in Fig. 8(b) and (d). In the later experiment, the
allocated I-coils are selected as the degaussing coil structure
to realize the minimum residual magnetization in the cubic
ferrite magnetic shield.
C. Magnetic Noise Measurements
The magnetic noise of the cubic ferrite shield is measured using an atomic SERF magnetometer in a normal
inertial measurement state [see Fig. 9(a)]. A cubic Pyrex
cell (8 × 8 × 8 mm), containing a drop of the potassium
metal, is injected with 50 torr of N2 gas and 650 torr of
4
He gas. To realize the SERF regime, the vapor cell is placed
inside a six-layered µ-metal shielding and our cubic magnetic
shield. The remaining environmental magnetic field passing
through the magnetic shield is compensated by the field coils
around the vapor cell. During the experiment, the potassium

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

1501810

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

Fig. 9. Magnetic noise measurement. (a) Schematic of the SERF magnetometer to measure the magnetic noise of ferrite shielding, 1/2: half-waveplate, 1/4:
quarter-waveplate, PBS: polarization beam splitter, PD: photodetector, and M:
mirror. (b) Experimental setup (Top).

metal is heat up to 180 ◦ C by the electric heating films with
a total power of 5 W. At 180 ◦ C, the metal vapor becomes
so dense that their Larmor precessions can be easily detected
by a linearly polarized probe light. The circularly polarized
pump laser passes through the vapor cell orthogonally, so that
the vapor is sensitive to the external magnetic field. Both
pump and probe lights are introduced into the vapor cell via
the polarization-maintaining fibers (PMFs) (Thorlabs) and the
nonmagnetic collimators (Thorlabs). The photoelectric detectors (PDs) (Thorlabs) collect the probe signals, which is then
demodulated using an amplifier (HFLI, Zurich Instruments).
The function of a low-pass filter in the control system is to
attenuate the passage of signals with frequencies above the
cutoff frequency. The sensitivity of the SERF magnetometer
is placed at the central z-axis of the cubic ferrite magnetic
shield. To analyze the magnetic noise at different positions,
three points along the central z-axis are selected. Point 1 is
the central point, point 2 is 22.5 mm below the central
point, and point 3 is 36 mm below the central point. The
magnetic noise is measured using an SERF magnetometer,
as shown in Fig. 9(b). In the experiment, the sensitivity of
SERF magnetometer is 1 fT/Hz−1/2 . In the measurements, the
calibration signal of 100 pT at 30 Hz was given to the SERF
magnetometer. In order to accurately output a magnetic field
of 100 pT, the coil constants of compensation coil need to be
determined first. The coil constant is calculated by fitting the
magnetic field with applied voltage. The coil constant in this
work is 0.69 V/nT, so an output of 69 mV at 30 Hz is required
to output 100 pT during the calibration process.
IV. E XPERIMENT
In (7), the magnetic noise of the cubic ferrite magnetic
shield can be calculated by using the integral of H 2 and the
imaginary part of complex magnetic permeability µ′′ . The
integral of H 2 can be calculated using the finite element
method (Section II). To obtain µ′′ , the impedance method was
used. The inductance and resistance of ferrite were measured
using an impedance analyzer (Keysight E4980); 30-turns of
copper coil were wound around the toroidal ferrite sample.
At a low frequency (<100 Hz), the capacitance of winding
coils is so small that the copper coil is equivalent to a series
circuit of resistance and inductance. For the ultrasensitive
atomic magnetometers, the measurement sensitivity depends
on the quantum effects below 100 Hz at a nearly zero magnetic
field. In the practical applications, such magnetometers need

to be put inside a multilayered µ metal magnetic shield to
null the external magnetic interference. Under this scenario,
the applied field for the innermost ferrite magnetic shield
approaches to zero. The complex magnetic permeability at
zero field is obtained by determining the y intercept of the
magnetic field-dependent relative permeability. Fig. 10 shows
the measurement results of the imaginary part of complex
magnetic permeability µ = µ′ − iµ′′ under different applied
magnetic fields below 100 Hz. The relative imaginary magnetic permeability increases with the applied field. When the
applied field is the same, the relative imaginary magnetic
permeability decreases with the increasing frequency. In later
experiments, the calibration signals for atomic magnetometer
are given at 30 Hz. Therefore, the linear fit of the relative
imaginary magnetic permeability at 30 Hz is analyzed, and the
y intercept of the fitting line gives the relative imaginary magnetic permeability at a nearly zero applied field. In Fig. 10, the
slope of field-dependent magnetic permeability is 5047 with
an intercept of 234.2, which was further used to analyze the
magnetic noise of cubic ferrite magnetic shield.
The demagnetization coils are wound through corners and
walls of the cubic ferrite magnetic shield following the allocated I-coils structure, as shown in Fig. 7(d). In Table III,
the result indicates that the minimum residual magnetizations
occurs when the degaussing frequency is 50 Hz and the applied
magnetic field is 40 A/m. In this work, the total length of
degaussing coils used is 1 m. Before measuring the magnetic
field, the degaussing coils are wound on the ferrite magnetic
shield’s surface and then connected to a program-controlled
voltage and current source, as shown in Fig. 11. The µ metal
shield and cubic ferrite shield are degaussed in series under a
degaussing frequency of 50 Hz and an applied current of 40 A.
The diameter of the innermost µ metal layer is 449 mm with a
wall thickness of 3 mm, and the height of µ metal is 900 mm.
The aim to use other concentric layers is to reduce the external
magnetic disturbance and provide a nearly zero field for the
cubic ferrite magnetic shield in the center. After the µ metal
and ferrites are degaussed for 3 s, the residual magnetic fields
in the central region of cubic ferrite shield were measured
using a CTM-6W fluxgate magnetometer (National Institute
of Metrology, China).
Fig. 12 shows the measured residual magnetic field after the
complete degaussing. For each direction, the residual magnetic
fields at the same point are measured three times. The scattered
points are the averaged results, and measurement uncertainties
are shown as the error bars. The deviation of measurement
results at the same point is less than 0.1 nT. Meanwhile, it is
found that the magnetic field at the x-direction is below 0.5 nT
with a gradient less than 0.014 nT/mm. The outperformance
of the measured gradient is due to a smaller magnetic field in
the real permalloy shielding. In the simulation, the magnitude
of the applied magnetic field is 1 µT, while the magnetic field
in the real permalloy shielding is about several nanoteslas [32].
The residual fields at the y- and z-directions are below
1.72 and 1.57 nT with the field gradients around 0.163 and
0.142 nT/mm, respectively. In each direction, the magnetic
field decreases along the distance, which is consistent with the
simulation results of the residual magnetic field in the finite

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

SUN et al.: SUPPRESSION OF MAGNETIC NOISE AND FIELD IN CUBIC LOW-NOISE FERRITE MAGNETIC SHIELDS

Fig. 10. Measurement results of the relative imaginary parts of the complex
magnetic permeability.

Fig. 12.

1501810

Measured magnetic field in the x-, y-, and z-directions.

Fig. 13. Contour plot of the calculated magnetic noise of the cubic ferrite
magnetic shielding at different positions and frequencies.

Fig. 11.

Experimental setup for magnetic field measurement.

element method (Section II). Without field compensation coils,
such cubic ferrite magnetic shield can provide a low magnetic
field environment with a small drift for the ultrasensitive
atomic magnetometers.
Using the finite element method, the square of the integral
magnetic field intensity H2 over the volume at different
points along the central z-axis is analyzed. By substituting
the imaginary part of the complex magnetic permeability
µ′′ = 234.2 and a temperature of 25 ◦ C into (7), the magnetic
noises of cubic ferrite magnetic shield at different points can

be calculated (see Fig. 13). The calculated magnetic noise
is nearly symmetric around the center. Due to the central
symmetric of the cubic geometry, the magnetic noise distributions should also be the same along the central y- and z-axes.
The usefulness of this distribution is that it provides a simple
design condition for the compensation and alignment for the
traditional field coils [34], [35]. Meanwhile, the magnetic noise
increases rapidly when the frequency is below 10 Hz, and
the largest magnetic noise occurs at the points of ±40 mm
when the frequency is 1 Hz. Based on the results of finite
element method, the averaged magnetic noise is 1.3 fT/Hz−1/2
from 2 to 100 Hz.
Fig. 14 shows the measurement results at points 1–3.
Excluding large environmental disturbance at a low frequency,
such as microvibration and sensors’ 1/ f noise [36], [37],
the magnetic noise spectrum of measurement is analyzed

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

1501810

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

Fig. 14. Noise spectrum of the magnetic field measurement. The green line
is the magnetic noise with the cubic ferrite shield. The black line is central
point, the blue line is point 1, the red line is point 2, and the black line is
point 3.

from 15 to 100 Hz. In Fig. 14, the rapid increment of the
magnetic noise at 30 Hz is due to the given calibration signals
in the experiment. Also, a large noise occurs at 50 Hz because
of the frequency of the main electricity at 50 Hz. The result
shows that the magnetic noise at point 1 (center) is smaller
than the other two points and the magnetic noise increases with
the distance from the central point, which is consistent with
the calculated results in Fig. 13. After excluding the magnetic
noise of calibration at 30 Hz and of the main electricity
at 50 Hz, the averaged magnetic noise at the ferrite magnetic
shield’s center is 2.62 fT/Hz−1/2 from 20 to 100 Hz. When
there is no cubic ferrite magnetic shield, averaged magnetic
noise is 6.12 fT/Hz−1/2 from 20 to 100 Hz. Compared with
the noise spectrum of permalloy shield, the noise level inside
cubic ferrite magnetic shield is reduced more than 133%.
It is found that the magnetic noise measurements are limited
by the sensitivity of the SERF magnetometer used. Noise
measurements less than 1 ft/Hz1/2 could be realized by using a
more sensitivity magnetometer. These experimental results all
indicate that the cubic ferrite magnetic shield can significantly
reduce the noise level.
The noise spectrum of the magnetic field measurement is
shown in Fig. 14. The green line is the magnetic noise with
the cubic ferrite shield. The black line is central point, the
blue line is point 1, the red line is point 2, and the black line
is point 3.
V. C ONCLUSION
In sight to suppress the eddy current magnetic noise of MSR
made of permalloy, a cubic Mn–Zn ferrite magnetic shield is
proposed. The JA demagnetization model is used to analyze
the theoretical minimum residual magnetization in the ferrite
materials. The degaussing effects of four different degaussing
coil structures are analyzed, and the allocated I-coils produce
a homogenous residual magnetic field in the central area. After

applying the optimized demagnetization frequency of 50 Hz
and an initial applied field of 40 A/m, the residual field of
the cubic magnetic shield was measured. Within a distance of
±10 mm near the center, the residual magnetic field is below
0.5 nT at the x-direction and is below 1.72 and 1.57 nT at
the y- and z-directions, respectively. Without any magnetic
compensation coil, the ferrite magnetic shield can provide
a low magnetic field environment. Meanwhile, the magnetic
noise of the cubic magnetic shield was analyzed using the
FEM. The calculation results show the magnetic noise distribution of cubic ferrite magnetic shield is symmetric, which is
convenient for the field compensation and alignment in the coil
design. The actual magnetic noise of cubic ferrite magnetic
shield was measured by using an SERF magnetometer. After
excluding the magnetic noise of calibration at 30 Hz and of
main electricity at 50 Hz, the measured magnetic noise at the
center is 2.62 fT/Hz−1/2 from 20 to 100 Hz. Compared with
the noise spectrum of permalloy shield, the noise level inside
cubic ferrite magnetic shield is reduced more than 133%.
This study proposed an insight to reduce the magnetic noise
for traditional MSRs. With the help of cubic ferrite shield,
the magnetic noise of MSRs can be significantly reduced.
By assembling multiple ferrite panels together, it is possible to
create a larger shielding space. The cost of scaling up depends
on the number of ferrite panels used. It is practical to create
a larger shielding room by using the ethyl adhesive to stick
more ferrite panels together. The durability of the cubic ferrite
magnetic shield can last for several years, depending on the
degrading period of ferrite materials. Due to the fragility of ferrites materials, large loads on the shields should be avoided in
order to prevent any damages. To further investigate the noise
characteristics of the ferrite magnetic shield, magnetometers
with the higher sensitivity are required.
R EFERENCES
[1] M. Mohammad, E. T. Wodajo, S. Choi, and M. E. Elbuluk, “Modeling
and design of passive shield to limit EMF emission and to minimize
shield loss in unipolar wireless charging system for EV,” IEEE Trans.
Power Electron., vol. 34, no. 12, pp. 12235–12245, Dec. 2019.
[2] M. Lu and K. D. T. Ngo, “Comparison of passive shields for coils in
inductive power transfer,” in Proc. IEEE Appl. Power Electron. Conf.
Expo. (APEC), Mar. 2017, pp. 1419–1424.
[3] S. Baillet, “Magnetoencephalography for brain electrophysiology and
imaging,” Nature Neurosci., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 327–339, Mar. 2017.
[4] Y. Yan et al., “Three-axis closed-loop optically pumped magnetometer operated in the serf regime,” Opt. Exp., vol. 30, no. 11,
pp. 18300–18309, 2022.
[5] T. E. Chupp, P. Fierlinger, M. J. Ramsey-Musolf, and J. T. Singh,
“Electric dipole moments of atoms, molecules, nuclei, and particles,”
Rev. Modern Phys., vol. 91, no. 1, Jan. 2019, Art. no. 015001.
[6] Z. Sun et al., “Limits of low magnetic field environments in magnetic
shields,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 5385–5395,
Jun. 2021.
[7] D. Pan et al., “Research on the design method of uniform magnetic
field coil based on the MSR,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 67, no. 2,
pp. 1348–1356, Feb. 2020.
[8] K. He et al., “A high-performance compact magnetic shield for optically pumped magnetometer-based magnetoencephalography,” Rev. Sci.
Instrum., vol. 90, no. 6, Jun. 2019, Art. no. 064102.
[9] T. J. Sumner, J. M. Pendlebury, and K. F. Smith, “Convectional magnetic
shielding,” J. Phys. D, Appl. Phys., vol. 20, no. 9, pp. 1095–1101,
Sep. 1987.
[10] I. Altarev et al., “A magnetically shielded room with ultra low residual
field and gradient,” Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 85, no. 7, Jul. 2014,
Art. no. 075106.

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

SUN et al.: SUPPRESSION OF MAGNETIC NOISE AND FIELD IN CUBIC LOW-NOISE FERRITE MAGNETIC SHIELDS

[11] I. Altarev et al., “A large-scale magnetic shield with 106 damping at
millihertz frequencies,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 117, no. 18, May 2015,
Art. no. 183903.
[12] I. Altarev et al., “Minimizing magnetic fields for precision experiments,”
J. Appl. Phys., vol. 117, no. 23, 2015, Art. no. 233903.
[13] D. Ma et al., “Parameter modeling analysis of a cylindrical ferrite
magnetic shield to reduce magnetic noise,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron.,
vol. 69, no. 1, pp. 991–998, Jan. 2022.
[14] J. C. Allred, R. N. Lyman, T. W. Kornack, and M. V. Romalis,
“High-sensitivity atomic magnetometer unaffected by spin-exchange
relaxation,” Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 89, no. 13, Sep. 2002, Art. no. 130801.
[15] Z. Xu, Z. Zhang, B. Wu, H. Wang, X. Kong, and M. Wang, “A study
of enclosed magnetic shielding room by simulation,” IEEE Trans. Appl.
Supercond., vol. 31, no. 8, pp. 1–4, Nov. 2021.
[16] P. Clérico, X. Mininger, L. Prévond, T. Baudin, and A. L. Helbert,
“Compromise between magnetic shielding and mechanical strength of
thin Al/steel/Al sandwiches produced by cold roll bonding: Experimental
and numerical approaches,” J. Alloys Compounds, vol. 798, pp. 67–81,
Aug. 2019.
[17] N. Holmes et al., “A lightweight magnetically shielded room with active
shielding,” Sci. Rep., vol. 12, no. 1, p. 13561, Aug. 2022.
[18] D. Wanasinghe and F. Aslani, “A review on recent advancement of electromagnetic interference shielding novel metallic materials and processes,” Compos. B, Eng., vol. 176, Nov. 2019,
Art. no. 107207.
[19] M. Wang, J. Feng, Y. Shi, and M. Shen, “Demagnetization weakening
and magnetic field concentration with ferrite core characterization for
efficient wireless power transfer,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 66,
no. 3, pp. 1842–1851, Mar. 2019.
[20] T. W. Kornack, S. J. Smullin, S.-K. Lee, and M. V. Romalis, “A lownoise ferrite magnetic shield,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 90, no. 22,
May 2007, Art. no. 223501.
[21] H. B. Dang, A. C. Maloof, and M. V. Romalis, “Ultrahigh sensitivity
magnetic field and magnetization measurements with an atomic magnetometer,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 97, no. 15, Oct. 2010, Art. no. 151110.
[22] B. Sun et al., “Correlating the microstructure of Mn–Zn ferrite with
magnetic noise for magnetic shield applications,” Ceram. Int., vol. 49,
no. 8, pp. 11960–11967, Apr. 2023.
[23] J. Lu et al., “Study of magnetic noise of a multi-annular ferrite shield,”
IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 40918–40924, 2020.
[24] product.tdk.com. (2024). Mn-Zn Ferrite Material Characteristics.
Accessed: Feb. 29, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://product.tdk.
com/system/files/dam/doc/product/ferrite/ferrite/ferritecore/catalog/ferrite_mn-zn_material_characteristics_en.pdf
[25] espimetals.com. (2080). Permalloy 80. Accessed: Feb. 29, 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://www.espimetals.com/index.php/technicaldata/175-Permalloy
[26] B. G. Kim, J. S. Song, H. S. Kim, and Y. W. Oh, “Magnetic properties
of very high permeability, low coercivity, and high electrical resistivity
in Fe87 Zr7 B5 Ag1 amorphous alloy,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 77, no. 10,
pp. 5298–5302, May 1995.
[27] M. Lauda et al., “Magnetic properties and loss separation in
FeSi/MnZnFe2 O4 soft magnetic composites,” J. Magn. Magn. Mater.,
vol. 411, pp. 12–17, Aug. 2016.
[28] S.-K. Lee and M. V. Romalis, “Calculation of magnetic field noise from
high-permeability magnetic shields and conducting objects with simple
geometry,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 103, no. 8, Apr. 2008, Art. no. 084904.
[29] J. Lu et al., “Effect of gaps on magnetic noise of cylindrical ferrite shield,” J. Phys. D, Appl. Phys., vol. 54, no. 25, Jun. 2021,
Art. no. 255002.
[30] D. Ma et al., “A novel low-noise mu-metal magnetic shield with
winding shape,” Sens. Actuators A, Phys., vol. 346, Oct. 2022,
Art. no. 113884.
[31] K. Yang et al., “Minimizing magnetic fields of the low-noise MnZn
ferrite magnetic shield for atomic magnetometer,” J. Phys. D, Appl.
Phys., vol. 55, no. 1, Jan. 2022, Art. no. 015003.
[32] Z. Sun, M. Reisner, P. Fierlinger, A. Schnabel, S. Stuiber, and
L. Li, “Dynamic modeling of the behavior of permalloy for magnetic shielding,” J. Appl. Phys., vol. 119, no. 19, May 2016,
Art. no. 193902.
[33] Z. Sun, A. Schnabel, M. Burghoff, and L. Li, “Calculation of an
optimized design of magnetic shields with integrated demagnetization
coils,” AIP Adv., vol. 6, no. 7, 2016, Art. no. 075220.

1501810

[34] K. Wang et al., “Design of gradient coils based on the target field method
in a high-permeability shield considering sidewall apertures,” Results
Phys., vol. 53, Oct. 2023, Art. no. 107017.
[35] J. Lu et al., “Hybrid optimal design of square highly uniform magnetic
field coils,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 70, no. 4, pp. 4236–4244,
Jun. 2022.
[36] C. Liu et al., “Investigation on the effects of micro-vibration on the
atomic comagnetometer,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 72, 2023,
Art. no. 9511711.
[37] P. Dutta and P. M. Horn, “Low-frequency fluctuations in solids: 1/f
noise,” Rev. Modern Phys., vol. 53, no. 3, p. 497, 1981.

Bowen Sun received the B.S. degree in chemical
engineering from the University of California at
Davis, Davis, CA, USA, in 2018, and the M.S.
degree in materials science and engineering from
Duke University, Durham, NC, USA, in 2020. He is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with Beihang
University, Beijing, China.
His research interests include magnetic shielding
technology and low magnetic noise ferrite design
and synthesize.

Danyue Ma received the Ph.D. degree in measurement technology and instruments from Beihang
University, Beijing, China, in 2021.
She is currently a Post-Doctoral Researcher with
the School of Physics, Beihang University. Her
current research interests include magnetic shielding
design and magnetic noise suppression.

Xiujie Fang received the Ph.D. degree in optics from
the School of Physics, Beihang University, Beijing,
China, in 2023.
She is currently an Assistant Research Fellow
with the School of Instrumentation and Optoelectronic Engineering, Beihang University. Her current
research interests include magnetic noise suppression and SERF atomic magnetometer.

Yangzhi Xue received the bachelor’s degree in
metallurgical engineering from Central South University, Changsha, China, in 2021. She is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree with Beihang University,
Beijing, China.
Her current research interests include magnetic
shielding and demagnetization technology.

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

1501810

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 73, 2024

Jixi Lu (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D. degree
in measurement technology and instruments from
Beihang University, Beijing, China, in 2016.
He is currently an Associate Research Fellow with
the Research Institute for Frontier Science, Beihang
University. His research interests include atomic
magnetometers and magnetic shielding design
technology.

Hua Chen was born in Taizhou, China. He received
Ph.D. degree in chemistry from Technical University
of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, Denmark, in 2023.
He did internship at Technical University of Liberec,
Liberec, Czech Republic, in 2016.
He worked as a Scientific Researcher at Charles
University, Prague, Czechia, from 2017 to 2019.
Currently, he is with the National Institute
of Extremely-Weak Magnetic Field Infrastructure,
Hangzhou, China. His research interests include
functional materials, battery electrode materials,
magnetic composite, and magnetic shielding materials.

Mengshi Zhang received the M.S. degree in precision instruments and machinery from Beihang
University, Beijing, China, in 2021.
He is currently working with Hangzhou Extremely
Weak Magnetic Field Major Science and Technology
Infrastructure Research Institute, Hangzhou, China.
His research interests include the magnetic noise
simulation, atomic magnetometer, and quantum
sensors.

Huanqi Wei received the M.S. degree in condensed
matter physics from Beihang University, Beijing,
China, in 2023.
He is currently working with Hangzhou Extremely
Weak Magnetic Field Major Science and Technology
infrastructures Research Institute, Hangzhou, China.
His research interests include magnetic shielding
and magnetic compensation system, special tooling
design.

Bangcheng Han (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in mechanical manufacture and
automation from Changchun Institute of Optics, Fine
Mechanics and Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, China, in 2004.
He is currently a Professor with the School of
Instrumentation Science and Optoelectronics Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, China. His
research interests include mechatronics, magnetic
suspension technology, attitude control actuator of
spacecraft, and precision measurement.

Yueyang Zhai received the M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the School of Electronics Engineering
and Computer Science, Peking University, Beijing,
China, in 2008 and 2013, respectively.
He is an Associate Professor with the Research
Institute of Frontier Science, Beihang University,
Beijing. His research fields include atomic molecular
optics, quantum sensors, cold atom, and quantum
simulation. His current research interests include
atomic precision measurement.

Authorized licensed use limited to: BEIHANG UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on July 23,2024 at 07:37:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

